FOREWORD
For the past 10 years, the Right has governed Caprica without any respect for its regions, taking away their powers by force, cutting budget for essential services and cutting the taxes for their rich friends while our middle-class has been carrying the weight.   Caprica deserves better than a managed decline. The Social Democratic Alliance offers a government that governs for you, the people. We believe in Caprica’s future, but time may be running out to retake it.

Under a strong, decisive government with the Left at its head, Caprica will take a strong stance against Norwyn, build honest partnerships across the world, and confront the climate crisis with utmost urgency. 

What we offer is not a promise of easy fixes to satisfy you. What we offer is a promise for a direction. A sovereign, sensible, and serious path forward. Caprica’s future is for the people to win. Security, liberty, empathy. 

IMMIGRATION:
The immigration process in Caprica is a vital part of our society. It ensures the smooth flow of migrants going in and out of Caprica, the coming of new human capital, and intellect the country needs. There have also been numerous crises that arose from the issue of immigration. The SDA believes in a sensible immigration system that prioritizes the benefit of the country first.

Caprica is under the Columbian Union, as well as its free movement sector. We are proud to be in an agreement allowing cultural, monetary, and intellectual exchanges freely without restrictions within developed society. However, the issue remains regarding countries who are not a member of the CU, and the fact regarding asylum seekers fleeing their home country due to humanitarian crisis.

A SDA government seeks to streamline the immigration process for non-CU countries to be smoother for those seeking to come to Caprica and contribute. Those who seek to immigrate to Caprica must first have an employer or school willing to accept them, a proof of income to sustain themselves short-term, a clean criminal record, and is a laborer or graduate of a certain economic sector that the Caprican labor market requires.

Furthermore, people seeking asylum in Caprica will never be immediately denied. They should be welcomed to a free, democratic country, away from the tyranny that plagues their homeland. They should be accommodated humanely with the agreement that they shouldn’t commit crimes, would seek to contribute to Caprican society, or have the ready plan to immigrate to another country.

FORPOL:
The recent move by President Bluespan III is one that is welcomed by the Social Democratic Alliance. The decision to reopen ties with the OURS is one made out of the thought of pragmatism. An SDA government shall guarantee that bilateral ties between both the OURS and Alania would be maintained and strengthened on the ground of goodwill, and not of either superpower trying to turn Caprica into a lapdog. We reaffirm our dedication towards a truly sovereign Caprica.

We also reaffirm our dedication against authoritarianism. We condemn the recent activity by the Norwyn government and its allies against our Union, San Doria and Kuliga. We will be expanding our military cooperation with the Union and Kuliga to establish a bulwark against authoritarianism and minimize the harm that is inflicted by the Norwynian and Eystran governments and militaries. Our goal is the contamination of the same revanchist, expansionist and authoritarian ideas and reverse its spread.

We also seek to partner with the CU in regards to economic integration, trade, and other discussions. While inside the CU, we have the wish for the CU to not force upon the ideas of economic liberalization to other states, and have the idea instead of solidarity under the ideal of defending democratic and sovereign interests.

ENVIRO
We propose the idea of experimental “ultra-low emission zones,” where during peak hours in major cities, additional fees would be collected as environmental tax. This is to discourage the use of private vehicles and instead use public transportation. Efforts are to be made to ensure climate resiliency and public transportation comfort and reliability to meet this goal of lower emissions in coordination with respective regional authorities.

In an SDA government, no new fossil fuel projects shall be approved within the term. We push our efforts for comprehensive climate and pollution action, and preventing the relentless destruction of the environment in exchange for boundless resource extraction. An SDA government will also push efforts within the scientific community to find more efficient, cost-effective renewables, along with the advancement of biofuels and hydrogen on top of already existing renewables as a form of energy diversification.

We propose a plastic bottle recycling initiative, where we work with groceries, convenience store chains, and other related businesses, to have people return empty plastic bottles in exchange for a partial refund. This is to incentivize the return of plastic bottles responsibly besides the trash can, and the bottles collected shall be used for recycling, therefore reducing the requirement of new resources to produce new products.

We also propose a Green Electronics Initiative, where we work with markets to encourage the return of old or broken electronics in stores that would be recycled or disposed of properly, along with new regulations meant to minimize footprint in the production of electronics. 




DEFENSE
The Social Democratic Alliance stands firm in our commitment towards the effective, efficient and extensive defence of our state. The Alliance however believes that the reactionary stance of the previous government’s defensive structure is fundamentally mistaken, and that the focus of any defensive investment shall be the deterrence of any regionally aggressive measures.

 The party stands in firm commitment to our previous promises of increased security facing modern multi-domain operations as while there have been several advancements made in the defence of the nation over the previous governments, the cyber and extraterrestrial contexts of defence have been comprehensively forgotten about, and leave a gaping hole in Caprican National Security.

To plug this hole, the party proposes the introduction of the Caprican Office of Reconnaissance, a brand new office inside COMET in charge of securing Caprican Dominance in Extraterrestrial Reconnaissance and satellite intelligence technology, providing means for both offensive and defensive capabilities in line with the Outer Space Treaty.

Additionally, alongside the 3 current arms of the Caprican Self Defence Force, the SDA will propose introducing the Caprican Office For Electronic Engagements, to be in charge of all cyber defence and offence operations related to the Caprican Armed Forces. To facilitate these demanding high technology and human resource requirements, the Party also commits to securing our future through a higher education fund through military means, meant to both train Caprican youth in valuable high-tech trades and provide a disproportionate increase in Caprican National Security.

ECON

We as SDA and REJ are in opposition to austerity. Our commitment is towards Keynesian economics and ensuring the wealthy pay their own fair share and the wealth is distributed.

The current tax system has imposed a high burden on our middle-class and offer insufficient margins to the higher-class. We believe in building a fair economic safety net, which is built on higher marginal tax brackets for the top percentile and offering tax relief and credits for lower income households and workers. 

To rebalance the income tax schedules we must ensure the higher-class pay their own share, which is used to improve and construct public infrastructure, allow higher spending for the welfare and public, and protect the working class’s disposable income. 

The current tax system treats all businesses as the same weights, however, all our businesses have their own different weights and our tax policy must adapt to them. The current system puts smaller businesses on uneven footing with multinational giants. What we propose is a progressive Corporate Income tax that applies higher rates to large corporate profits and creates distinct, favorable tiers for worker or user owned co-operatives. This framework will help benefit our local businesses and their growth. They will receive reduced baseline rates, exemptions, and retained surpluses being reinvested into their local communities and workforce. 

Value-Added Tax is in itself regressive and targets lower-income households’ earnings. The current high rate, which is 20%, in our government would be cut down to 15%. All public services, healthcare, public utilities, and essential consumer goods must be excluded from VAT. Tgşs kıwers the consumption based tax burden on lower-class and boosts the purchasing power and reduces the cost of living for working families.

We will support our local businesses who hire Capricans, in Caprica. Additionally, this will be stacked together with our proposed apprenticeship program, Skilled Trades Partnership Program. The Caprican businesses will see higher benefits as they employ locals, take apprentices, and protect their contracts.

An equitable economy needs diversifying ownership models from monopolies that are owned by investors towards worker-owned and community-ran enterprises. As to counterbalance the recent deregulation laws that took away the public support from agricultural and workplace so-operaticves, we propose a dedicated State Co-operative Development Fund. This fund will provide seed capital at low-interest, technical assistance, and legal support for co-operative startups. 

The CMA (Competitive Markets Act) and CEMA (Competitive Energy Markets Act) are the symbol of aggressive neoliberal deregulation that dismantled the public control over essential sectors and industries. CEMA shatters our energy security under the name of unbundling. At the same time, CMA forces privatization and selling-off of our strategic public assets, including 75% of the Caprican Chemical Corporation. It is a priority of us to repeal both the acts to stop the privatization of core public infrastructure.
